Now let's take a deeper look at top down historical.
What do I mean by historical?
It's based on past data from previous projects that I've saved
away so I can reuse that data on new projects,
to help me make my estimates better.
So we perform this early in our estimating process and we
can maybe use some soft specifications.
Maybe we just think hey, we might have 20 screens or 10 reports,
no real detail right now.
We want to utilize those actual costs from previous
projects for similar tasks or functions.
Now this works best if the WBS, Work Breakdown Structure,
from a previous project mirrors or is similar to
the WBS for your current project.
So again WBS,
it's a hierarchical and incremental decomposition of the project
into phases or deliverables and work packages.
So as an example, maybe one of your tasks is to design a database.
5.
0, maybe 5.
1, 5.
2, 5.
3.
It might be to put the attributes on the tables,
figure out primary and foreign keys, come up with indexes.
So, it just decomposes all the tasks down.
So if you're able to do that from the previous project and match up
where they make sense for this future project,
you'll have some historical data that you may be able
to apply to the future project.
So example of actual hours from a Legacy project or projects.
For example, maybe the average time to develop a simple screen,
with some logic, is 16 hours.
Maybe the average time to develop a moderate screen with logic is 24 hours.
And average time to develop a complex screen with logic was 40 hours.
And you arrived at the 16, the 24, and the 40 by looking at past actual data.
So let's make a little estimate for the new system.
If in the PDD we call out 7 simple screens,
7 times 16 is 102 hours, 9 moderate screens,
9 times 24 is 216 hours.
Three complex, 3 times 40 is 120 hours.
Then we can come up with a rough estimate of about 438 hours.
And that we can do very quickly, very easily, and add that back into our PDD.
Top down heuristic.
Heuristic is experience-based techniques for estimation.
This is based on your experience.
For example, I think my team and I can build a simple screen in 20 hours.
So you're not using actual data in this case,
you're using data from your own experiences.
We perform this early in our process and again we
can use the soft specifications.
Utilizes our estimated cost based on current skill sets of the team,
rather than the historical data as before.
But as I mentioned, you could do both of these and compare them.
Works best for an experienced team that knows their velocity,
knows how much they can really do and perform.
If you haven't worked with a team you won't have any
probably basis for your heuristic approach.
Example, based on average time a software engineer requires to build.
What?
A simple screen.
In my team say, for example, based on our experiences,
I think 20 hours is the right estimate for that.
Moderate screen, I think 30 hours.
Complex screen, maybe 50 hours.
Maybe your team dynamic changes, maybe you bring on some new people.
Maybe these hours there go up.
Maybe over time you're more and more experienced, then these hours may go down.
So let's go through an example.
Seven screens again that are simple, 140 hours.
Moderate screens, 270 hours.
Complex screens, 150 hours.
So our total for this particular chunk of work,
these screens, will be about 560 hours.
Again,
this is an alternative way for you to predict the estimates for this kind of work.